---
title: Why R?
layout: default
---

<p>It's free, open source, powerful and highly extensible.</p><br>

<p>So, why not R?</p><br>

<p>R can appear overpowering at first because R syntax is unalike from that of many other languages, but not because it's any more difficult than others.
With more than 4,400 add-on packages, 18,000+ members of LinkedIn's R group and close to 80 R Meetup groups currently in existence, there can be little doubt that interest in the R statistics language, is sky-high.</p><br>

<p>Sure, you can effortlessly inspect complex formulas on a spreadsheet. But it's not nearly as easy to run multiple data sets through spreadsheet formulas to check results as it is to put several data sets through a script. Because R is a programmable environment that uses command-line scripting, you can store a series of complex data-analysis steps that lets you re-use your analysis work on similar data more easily than if you were using a point-and-click interface.</p><br>

<p>Certainly, the mantra of "Make sure your work is reproducible!" is a common theme among R enthusiasts.</p><br>

<p>*Relatively high-profile users of R include:</p><br>

<blockquote>Facebook: Used by some within the company for tasks such as analyzing user behavior.<br>

Google: There are more than 500 R users at Google, according to David Smith at Revolution Analytics, doing tasks such as making online advertising more effective.<br>

FDA: Used for clinical trials of new drugs.<br>
Twitter:  Used for data science applications on the Twitter database.<br>
FourSquare: Used to develop its recommendation engine.<br>
Source: <a href="http://blog.revolutionanalytics.com/2013/05/companies-using-open-source-r-in-2013.html">Revolution Analytics</a></blockquote> 
